README.md, before:

# gsites2md

HTML to Markdown tool, designed to migrate content from Google Sites to gitlab pages.

Tested with [fiquipedia.es](http://fiquipedia.es) (Work in progress)


## A bit of history
In 2012, a one-man army started building [fiquipedia.es](http://fiquipedia.es), hosted on 
[Google Sites](https://sites.google.com/). This page promptly became a reference in the 
Physics and Chemistry Spanish educational landscape. 

Unfortunately Google decided to discontinued Google Sites Classics from September 1st, 2021 on. 
So, our lonely hero decided to migrate the huge amount of content to 
[Gitlab Pages](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/pages/). The pre-existing HTML to Markdown migration 
tools did not provide a clean Markdown, so I decided to help.

> Something is infinitely greater than zero
> 
> `E.G.S.` (fiquipedia man)

If you have a Physics or Chemistry problem, if no one else can help, 
and if you can browse to [fiquipedia.es](http://fiquipedia.es) and you find the solution....maybe you can 
[buy a coffe to fiquipedia.es](https://ko-fi.com/fiquipedia).

## Running on the command line

```
Convert an HTML file or folder (and its content) in a Markdown file

Execution:
	python HTML2mdCLI.py -s <input_file_or_folder> -d <destination_path>
	
where:
	-h, --help: Print this help
	-s, --source <source_path>: (Mandatory) source file or folder
	-d, --dest <dest_path>: (Mandatory) destination file or folder
	-r, --replace : (Optional) Flag: Replace Google Drive links to local links (It WON'T download the content by default. You must use in conjunction with --download to force the download)
	-D, --download : (Optional) Flag: Download Google Drive content to local drive.This option will have effect only if is used in conjunction with --replace, otherwise will be ignored
	-u, --url: (Optional) Use the page title, header of level 1 or the last section of the URL as URL description (only when URL link a description are the same). NOTE: This option can be slow.
	-t, --timeout <seconds>: (Optional) Timeout, in seconds, to use in link validation connections. It admits milliseconds, e.g. "0.750" or seconds "2". By default is unlimited
	-m, --multiline : (Optional) Support for multiline content in table cells. (Warning: Google Sites may use internal tables in HTML wich may not seem tables for the user. Use under your own risk!)	
```
## Setting up your development environment
These are some recommended readings in order to set up a local environment using PyCharm;
   * [Create a Project from GitHub](https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/guide/tips/create-project-from-github/)
   * [Setting Up a Virtual Environment In PyCharm](https://arcade.academy/venv_install/index.html)

### requirements.txt
The standard in Python projects is to create a file called **requirements.txt** and list the packages you want in there.

PyCharm will automatically ask if you want to install those packages as soon as you type them in. Go ahead and let it.

```
beautifulsoup4
google-api-python-client
google-auth-oauthlib
```

### Enable the Google Drive API
To get started integrating with the Google Drive UI, you need to enable the Drive API within your app's 
Cloud Platform project and provide configuration details.

Please see [Enable the Google Drive API](https://developers.google.com/drive/api/v3/enable-drive-api)

## Unit testing
> In order to execute the unit test that downloads content from Google Drive, you must have access to the 
> Google Drive account where the content is stored. 

## Download a copy of a website

This application needs a local copy of a website (www.fiquipedia.es) to use as input. The source HTML will be 
converted to Markdown.

### Prerequisites on Linux (Ubuntu/Debian)
#### Install 'wget'
> $ apt-get install wget

### Prerequisites on Mac
#### Install Homebrew
> $ /bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"

#### Install 'wget'
> $ brew install wget

### Using 'wget' to download a local copy of a website
> wget --content-disposition --recursive -p http://www.fiquipedia.es

### URL parameters in file names downloaded by wget 


If the server is kind, it might be sticking a `Content-Disposition header on 
the download advising your client of the correct filename. Telling `wget` to 
listen to that header for the final filename is as simple as:

> wget --content-disposition

Otherwise, you need to execute this script to remove the URL parameters from
the file names added by `wget` 

```sh
# /bin/bash
for i in `find $1 -type f`
do
    output=`echo $i | cut -d? -f1`
    if [ $i != $output ]
    then
        mv $i $output
    else
        echo "Skiping $i"
    fi
done
```

Commit message:

README.md updated. Included reference to the new Google Drive API version

README.md, after:

# gsites2md

HTML to Markdown tool, designed to migrate content from Google Sites to gitlab pages.

Tested with [fiquipedia.es](http://fiquipedia.es) (Work in progress)


## A bit of history
In 2012, a one-man army started building [fiquipedia.es](http://fiquipedia.es), hosted on 
[Google Sites](https://sites.google.com/). This page promptly became a reference in the 
Physics and Chemistry Spanish educational landscape. 

Unfortunately Google decided to discontinued Google Sites Classics from September 1st, 2021 on. 
So, our lonely hero decided to migrate the huge amount of content to 
[Gitlab Pages](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/project/pages/). The pre-existing HTML to Markdown migration 
tools did not provide a clean Markdown, so I decided to help.

> Something is infinitely greater than zero
> 
> `E.G.S.` (fiquipedia man)

If you have a Physics or Chemistry problem, if no one else can help, 
and if you can browse to [fiquipedia.es](http://fiquipedia.es) and you find the solution....maybe you can 
[buy a coffe to fiquipedia.es](https://ko-fi.com/fiquipedia).

## Running on the command line

```
Convert an HTML file or folder (and its content) in a Markdown file

Execution:
	python HTML2mdCLI.py -s <input_file_or_folder> -d <destination_path>
	
where:
	-h, --help: Print this help
	-s, --source <source_path>: (Mandatory) source file or folder
	-d, --dest <dest_path>: (Mandatory) destination file or folder
	-r, --replace : (Optional) Flag: Replace Google Drive links to local links (It WON'T download the content by default. You must use in conjunction with --download to force the download)
	-D, --download : (Optional) Flag: Download Google Drive content to local drive.This option will have effect only if is used in conjunction with --replace, otherwise will be ignored
	-u, --url: (Optional) Use the page title, header of level 1 or the last section of the URL as URL description (only when URL link a description are the same). NOTE: This option can be slow.
	-t, --timeout <seconds>: (Optional) Timeout, in seconds, to use in link validation connections. It admits milliseconds, e.g. "0.750" or seconds "2". By default is unlimited
	-m, --multiline : (Optional) Support for multiline content in table cells. (Warning: Google Sites may use internal tables in HTML wich may not seem tables for the user. Use under your own risk!)	
```
## Setting up your development environment
These are some recommended readings in order to set up a local environment using PyCharm;
   * [Create a Project from GitHub](https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/guide/tips/create-project-from-github/)
   * [Setting Up a Virtual Environment In PyCharm](https://arcade.academy/venv_install/index.html)

### requirements.txt
The standard in Python projects is to create a file called **requirements.txt** and list the packages you want in there.

PyCharm will automatically ask if you want to install those packages as soon as you type them in. Go ahead and let it.

```
beautifulsoup4
google-api-python-client
google-auth-oauthlib
```

### Enable the Google Drive API
To get started integrating with the Google Drive UI, you need to enable the Drive API within your app's 
Cloud Platform project and provide configuration details.

Please see [Enable the Google Drive API](https://developers.google.com/drive/api/v3/enable-drive-api)

> **NOTE**: Google has changed the Google Drive API. The app hasn't been tested wiht the new app
> 
> [Update to some Google Drive file links, admin decision recommended before July 23, 2021](https://workspaceupdates.googleblog.com/2021/06/drive-file-link-updates.html)
> **Developers**: Items that have a [Drive API permission](https://developers.google.com/drive/api/v3/reference/permissions)with type=domain or type=anyone, where withLink=true (v2) 
> or  allowFileDiscovery=false (v3), will be affected. In addition to the item ID, your application may now also need a 
> resource key to access these items. Use our Developer resource to [learn more about how this update will impact your projects](https://developers.google.com/drive/api/v3/resource-keys). 


## Unit testing
> In order to execute the unit test that downloads content from Google Drive, you must have access to the 
> Google Drive account where the content is stored. 

## Download a copy of a website

This application needs a local copy of a website (www.fiquipedia.es) to use as input. The source HTML will be 
converted to Markdown.

### Prerequisites on Linux (Ubuntu/Debian)
#### Install 'wget'
> $ apt-get install wget

### Prerequisites on Mac
#### Install Homebrew
> $ /bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"

#### Install 'wget'
> $ brew install wget

### Using 'wget' to download a local copy of a website
> wget --content-disposition --recursive -p http://www.fiquipedia.es

### URL parameters in file names downloaded by wget 


If the server is kind, it might be sticking a `Content-Disposition header on 
the download advising your client of the correct filename. Telling `wget` to 
listen to that header for the final filename is as simple as:

> wget --content-disposition

Otherwise, you need to execute this script to remove the URL parameters from
the file names added by `wget` 

```sh
# /bin/bash
for i in `find $1 -type f`
do
    output=`echo $i | cut -d? -f1`
    if [ $i != $output ]
    then
        mv $i $output
    else
        echo "Skiping $i"
    fi
done
```
